this video has been sponsored by Nord
VPN get an order VPN comm for its lush
Austin eruption to protect your privacy
online today it's pretty rare that a
product stands the test of time we've
seen so many video game franchises pop
up have an absolutely bonkers fandom for
a few months and then promptly die out
rest in peace cube world and all of
these once thought of as a fad I think
it's pretty clear that 23 years later
Pokemon is here to stay it's been a
minute since I've dived deep into one
but with the latest monster catching
collection sword and shield on the
horizon I'm getting pretty excited but
that's not what we're talking about
today welcome to part 2 of the Pokemon
clones the sequel to my 2015 video geez
I hear a lot of y'all are mad about the
lack of a national pokedex in the new
games in that case let's talk about some
pokemon clones alternatives and in some
cases straight-up ripoffs
but what is a pokemon clone now I could
just call this whole video shouldn't
Megami Tensei clones if we're being real
but I'm trying to talk about games that
don't necessarily deal with the complete
destruction of humanity
just like cube monsters yeah don't be
sad my general focus here is gonna be
games that deal with collecting leveling
up creatures or ones that have the look
and feel of Pokemon you know the ones
know muy mando so yo its Austin and once
again we're gonna be diving into the
world of Pokemon clones now I'm gonna
miss some there are a ton of them
however since sword and shield are on
the horizon I was thinking hey maybe I
make a couple of these videos maybe you
let me know
right down there sometimes a clone might
pop out of a franchise that doesn't
really make sense at first but then
you're like oh okay sure not like
Digimon but something a little weirder
who here remembers shaman king oh god
shaman king I remember not much about
this one back in the day I was
subscribed to the English Prince of
shounen jump when it was like Naruto
Dragon Ball Z Sandland Yu Yu Hakusho one
piece and shaman King all I really
remember about the show is that this
guy's name was yo and this girl
Anna and she was cute despite the fact
that she's basically wearing a
tablecloth on her head I don't know I
was like 13 anyways all of these anime
kids are shaman and underrated warcraft
class and someone who can tap into the
world of the dead except since this was
a shounen anime that means everyone gets
a fighting partner in the case of yo
amita maru he's a dead samurai man
spirit thing in fact it would it be too
far-fetched to call Shaman King a proto
youkai watch which by the way I'm not
talking about this time next time I've
promised shaman King was pretty damn
popular in Japan and also did pretty
well in the States getting an old-school
proper for kids dub hell yeah
now with any vaguely popular anime we've
got video games the concept of the show
alone lends itself pretty heavily to
gaming we got like fighting games
Metroidvania a strategy RPG on the ps2
but most importantly a pokemon clone
that as far as I can tell did not
release in Japan I mean it says Konami
Japan here so I whatever this is Shaman
King legacy of the spirits soaring Hawk
Edition that's a mouthful
there's also sprinting wolf but I was
never much of a wolf kid growing up I'm
more of a majestic bird you know you
tuck the bald eagle shirts directly into
the jorts liberating what can I say it's
Pokemon but with dead people yeah not
like dead creatures or cute monsters
like in yokai watch but like this I mean
it makes sense when you have yo
summoning like a meet Amaru or some
other ancient looking warriors from
times past why is there a 7-eleven clerk
on my team why is this random doge
attacking me why is the burger lady so
scary like she's not looking towards the
enemy but directly at the player as if
she's wanting to possess you also her
attack is leaked I don't like it shaman
king has a lot of dialogue too much also
a stupid amount of encounters at least
she can finish him quickly actually
somehow the battles and legacy of
spirits feel less animated than pokémon
red and blue which is saying something
your spirit just kind of sits there dead
face and jiggles a little bit when you
get hit kind of like nothing excites
them anymore I feel like the game feels
that way too if you happen to die in
combat it doesn't like reboot or take
you to the main menu like any other
video game it's like game over please
turn off the power take a shower wash
your foot damn dude I will say I
appreciate the amount of effort they
spent on cross-licensing for this though
is my favorite dead person Hank Hill
the concept of shaman king translates
really well into a Pokemon like RPG but
they sure dropped the ball on this one
it's like aggressively mediocre or
painfully average
there's too many random encounters
combat is uneventful it's boring to look
at and imbalanced but worst of all look
at this cat are you okay Oh shiny next
up we have a video game I always looked
at from afar with a sense of wonderment
I saw this man with giant red hair and I
was like wow I wish I could be you now
there's a ton of monster collecting
games on the PlayStation 1 but today
we're gonna be talking about Azure
dreams back in the day konami used to
take all kinds of weird risks yeah
believe it or not they used to do things
besides boards remakes Pro Evolution
Soccer and bomber girl late 90s Konami's
specifically on the PlayStation 1 was
ridiculous yugioh was starting to take
off so there were a lot of games for
that Castlevania Symphony of the Night
set a new standard not just for
Castlevania but practically helped to
create a new genre of platformer Henao
kojima was breaking new ground with
snatcher and Metal Gear Solid Suikoden
one led into Suikoden 2 which was one of
my favorite games of all time somewhere
in the middle of all of that Konami
tossed a new IP out into the wild known
as Azure dreams
you ever played one of those mystery
dungeon games long before we had a term
for it shun sobs mystery dungeon series
of games were kind of a proto roguelike
the term and genre of games turn around
just about everything these days do you
lose any progress when you die roguelike
Mario Brothers is a roguelike you don't
even carry over power-ups when you dive
mystery dungeon games haven't really
been fully embraced by a Western
audience as they're a casual my first
exposure to these games was chocobo
dungeon 2 on the PlayStation 1 I thought
it was really cool until I died and lost
literally everything all of my items
gone these games are mean but oh are
they fun I just had the age like 15
years in order to fully appreciate them
let's hop into Azure dreams
you play as Coe the son of the famous
monster hunter
Co yo screw it Austin though I did have
to look at this horrifying 2d trying to
look 3d baby spray in order to do it
make sure you're positive make every
effort and live life happily and
joyfully to the fullest so our dad dies
right away actually he dies before we
even start the game because the opening
cutscenes like sadly he died early so we
get to have the emotional whiplash of it
happening twice it's like three minutes
obviously this here's the Pokemon clones
video so we're the Mazda zan well once
you hit the bustling age of 15 you
decide to go into the tower where your
father passed away and take over for for
some reason all of my dialogue choices
are hella sassy like all the time makes
sense though because the localization
here has everyone being mean to you all
the time constantly you get woken up in
the morning by this neko girl who
literally captain falcon's you I'm
surprised you can get up after that
puppy but yes so you head to the tower
and immediately run into this cute
little thing called kyun they're like
hey you're gonna be my monster tamer now
and you're like okay is there a reason
he comes to you immediately
is it your dead dad's monster I don't
know the tower plays exactly like one of
those hard-ass mystery dungeon games
except you get to find and tame monsters
now anytime you enter the tower ko
starts out at level one and only has I
touch you brought in with you if you
leave your level resets however any
experience gained by your monsters is
kept they're gonna be your main method
of progressing as well as any weapons
and armor you bring out of the tower
however if you die without teleporting
out you lose all of those items so don't
don't do that so how about those
monsters huh you get to meet a lot of
cool monsters like balloon troll Poppa
Loompa there are there eggs you find in
the tower and you like you hug them you
give them a big ol hug but outside you
that takes a while
mini hugs at first you only have one
collar so you can only have one monster
on the field at a time but eventually
you get multiples so you can have a
bunch at at once they can attack on
their own with tweakable AI or you can
manually toggle their attacks or you can
just rely on them to do everything for
you like a like a true Pokemon master
however as you
isn't just a dungeon crawler it's
actually a dating sim your ugly short
look porn your father's dead that is
what is so great about you [ __ ] what
welcome to the metagame of azure dreams
when you aren't collecting monsters to
dungeon with your collecting girlfriends
to fill out a diamond on your safe file
as well as sweep up your floors give you
goodbye kisses items and have more
people to assault you when you wake up
just they're so mean this game is a
strange flirting is just genuinely
baffling to me in reality and also in
the game but the majority of the girls
you run into just talk constant trash
gia insult your social standing and just
just just anything is this what it's
like in real life you end up having to
compete for their affection with gosh or
ghost the town wannabe womanizer he's
rich and makes fun of you for any reason
mostly money then that's why you have to
date his sister the original selfie I
hear you wet your pants in the tower
Austin such a mystery not in the mood
for the aggressive type try cheryl via
bedridden sick anime girl
[Music]
yo 1997 was wack also I've been trying
not to say anything about their eyes but
I mean the eyes though they're coming
off their face yo I will say it's pretty
cool to watch your town progress as you
get higher up the tower towns Foulke
ended up asking for favors like building
new places to hang or filling out the
pool base building has always been one
of my favorite things in RPGs so having
all of this here and this weird Konami
made Pokemon Cologne is pretty cool as
your dreams is not a cheap one to find
these days but if you ever manage to
play it I'd recommend it maybe it's a
bit dated and weird in 2019 but it's a
fun time you might like it if you're a
grandpa like me but wait there's more
this is as your dreams again I'm glad to
know that these eldritch horrors known
as anime eyes are still intact
the original Azure dreams didn't go
gangbusters or anything so konami
decided to port it to the gameboy color
and give it another shot on the platform
that made Pokemon huge and well it's not
the worst thing ever there are some
differences between the two though it's
got a lot less the game boy version
focuses on just dungeon crawling but
that means there's no buildings to be
built and there's no girls to beat you
up it's pretty decent for a portable
game of the time but unfortunately it
also failed to connect with an audience
in Japan and in the States I just think
that maybe the mystery dungeon format of
video game isn't that popular it can't
sustain a ton of franchises there's also
a spin-off sequel that came out on the
DS called towels adventure which has
great reviews but maybe I'll check that
out another time cuz right now I gotta
piss my pants
makes me mysterious similarly to peeing
in your pants let's talk about mobile
games the iPhone and Android mobile
stores are the wild wild west for
bootleggers II name a popular franchise
it's their unofficially represented by
some horrible horrible ripoff like hey
you know hello neighbor
well this is angry neighbor it's
different Pokemon of course is not
exempt from this if there's one
franchise that isn't safe here its
Pokemon now a ton of these have made the
waves I'm sure you've seen random mobile
ads for these
Bob's that have been like
but today I want to talk to you about
two specific ones let's start with
trainer Canyon
choose your favorite fari or a Ferrari
yo dope start let's install this on
BlueStacks on a Windows virtual PC over
a VPN in a library
oh god this is trainer Canyon this is
probably someone's stolen fan art in
fact it is and I tried to find you but
you erased your pixiv but pretty cool
grand you dude good job everyone
can I give them a round of [ __ ] if
you've ever been to a flea market I'm
sure you've seen those bootleg looking
figures that have like a buff mr.
incredible with spider-man and the
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles well this
is the video game equivalent of that it
says trainer Canyon they even made up
some BS designs with the store page but
it's not it's not a trainer kid that's
the Pokemon you know why there's so many
people here what's wrong with y'all go
play a game real game trainer Canyon is
basically exactly what it looks like low
effort mindless mobile garbage designed
to suck money out of the person playing
it but this time with copyright
infringement so much copyright
infringement that trainer canyons not
even the first name this game had this
is literally just like it's it's Pokemon
oh it looks like Pikachu
it sounds like Pikachu it smells like
Professor Oak all games like this do or
take money from kids until they get DMCA
aid so if you're looking for trainer
canyons sometime in the future it might
be under a different name
look out y'all I'm still confused as to
why there's so many people here is it is
this where the National pokedex is it
has to be it
check out my epic level 8 blossom breath
look we can stew in garbage all day or
we can talk about a decent Pokemon
cologne so let's do that now there's
actually a bunch of these but I stumbled
upon one in particular that caught my
eye this here is NEX Oman when it comes
to mobile games especially ones like
this I'm used to no production value
however next Sumon looks sounds and
plays pretty well
we've even got an opening cutscene with
voice acting with
one shattering role and they turn a war
between humans and necks Amon began Oh
God sword and shields gonna have voice
acting at the beginning is pretty
similar to Ruby and Sapphire where you
have to quickly pick a polka I mean next
saman from a container and fight not
Team Rocket I'm glad the next time on
universe found a use for those original
Xbox shells good on them Recycling's
nice I went with sprung because I mean
who else am I gonna go with Snivy here
okay sure you fight him off and then
suddenly the next so lord who's totally
not a super sand pops out of nowhere and
well next saman happens it knows exactly
what it wants to be and it does it
pretty well especially for a mobile game
a totally legal original mobile game you
journey from town to town and counter
colorful characters catch various necks
aman who are all animated very well each
town is ruled by an overseer who are
apparently scumbags like the world of
NEX amman is some dystopian society but
i so cute and colorful and everything's
on fire oh oh now you can't spell mobile
game without microtransactions these are
like avatars and Nexo traps with higher
catch rates etc etc also running you pay
to run that's an old meme right once
you're like an hour and a half into the
game next time on literally stops you at
this bridge and it's like hey you gotta
pay the troll toll again in this neck so
hole I mean it's only $0.99 but still
I've paid much more for worse it's
basically exactly how I would imagine a
legit Pokemon would be on a mobile
device if they didn't do the whole go
thing it's a bit grindy and at the end
of the day definitely still a mobile
game but it's a pretty neat pokemon
clone maybe one day Nintendo will
actually do the thing and do this look
if a small group can make a clone with
over three hundred and nine necks aman
on mobile and have it be this quality
imagine what Nintendo can do I'll tell
you what they can't do flex ol get flex
Todd alright I got one last game for you
guys and I'm sorry it's not Dragon
Warrior monsters - no yokai or dragon
this time I'm sorry next time one of my
favorite things is stumbling upon a game
or an indie that you feel no one else
has heard of so to end our clone spree
today I want to talk about a little Jim
known
as heartbeat in all capital letters like
it's screaming at you heart beat if you
take a look at every game in this video
so far you'll notice how they can all
fit the Pokemon mold while slipping into
different genres and styles one of them
a mystery dungeon another whatever this
was heart beat here has taken elements
of Pokemon and turned it into something
really weird and unique it's hard to
explain but the website does a decent
job when it's like quote explore a
magical yet all-too-familiar world a
Winky Winky but this is heart beat and
it's a full ass in the RPG made by
chumbo soft I'm sure one of the first
things you're noticing with this one is
that hey this looks really similar to
Gen 3 and well it certainly does except
when you get into dialogue because
you'll have these pretty and large
sprites of the characters pop up you
play as Eve staccato a novice controvert
the contour is somebody that's made a
pact with a Mogwai also called mugs in
this world yeah no not that mug but
that's a good mug eva's partnered with a
little kitty named Klein who was a type
of Mogwai called a cat sit I had no idea
when I first launched it but harpy is an
RPG maker game that feels wild to me
I've grown up with the notion of RPG
Maker games looking and feeling a very
specific way but I guess heart beat
leaned really heavily into doing
something different I'm just gonna
praise this game for a second the
sprites are just beautiful characters
are highly detailed the monsters are
cute well-designed and varied the cities
and environments have this vague
unmistakable Pokemon feel to them but
where does the Pokemon clone aspect come
into play in the world of heartbeat all
of the Mogwai also possess a human form
early on you fight a Cerberus who once
defeated and tamed becomes a kawaii
anime girl oh but not like mom on the
Mogwai transform in order to fit in with
human society because of story reasons I
don't want to spoil it because it's got
a pretty good narrative your party
members aren't catchable so much as they
just are in your party at certain
moments in the story so in that aspect
it's not necessarily a monster
collectathon it's almost as if like
Pokemon took its concept in a direction
more similar to the anime where other
Mogwai exists in the world which you
only encounter and
have journeys with certain ones and in
that game they have distinct
personalities and character development
and maybe they have to remind you they
can smell the difference between food
and musk you inhumane bastard however
you do have access to a reasonable
monster this little guy right here
boochi boochi starts out like this
little baby coward monster however he
accompanies you in combat but you have
to feed it and raise its stats and equip
it with DNA strands these are
collectible items you find throughout
the game that allow your little butchy
to transform into whatever little
monster you've found sometimes there are
many versions of the main casts animal
forms and other times they're just
whatever this is I like it you don't
have control over it in combat but you
need to take care of your booty in order
for it to assist you properly there you
go there's the Pokemon thing it counts
so yeah maybe I stretched the definition
of a Pokemon clone a little bit but the
entire time I was playing this I felt
like someone took the Pokemon concept
and just ran with it anyone who watched
the original Pokemon anime probably
remembers how ornery Charizard was when
you play something like let's go Eevee
you get your little guys like eternally
but heart beat took time to do the
opposite of that listen I'm just saying
that it's nice to have a monster I
bonded with to say that I'm stupid idiot
because I am but if we get into the
gameplay we do have a lot of limitations
because it is in our PG maker game but
jumbo soft sure made the best of what
they had more so than Pokemon heartbeat
leans into Shin Megami Tensei because
this game is real hard it's not Shin
Megami Tensei 3 Nocturne or anything but
I'm surprised at how difficult they
decided to make the base difficulty
despite the very cutesy look thankfully
you can put it on baby casual mode for
those of you who are baby casuals like
me now obviously it's not perfect I had
a couple of weird glitches and freezes
happen in my playthrough had a couple of
issues with the map abilities as well
each of the Mogwai has an action they
can do on the overworld map such as
cutting grass crawling into small spaces
or jumping ship has a charging ability
because she's a heifer and there's a
puzzle where you have to charge from
button to button
but it's a little Jake there's also the
leveling system which suffers from that
RPG maker gating since every zone offers
different enemies and the jump in XP u
gets ridiculous
you'll go from barely anything
increasing your meter anymore to BAM
an entire level in one battle it's a
miniscule observation but still a weird
thing also there's a lot of girls in
this game like every single main
character is a female I was wondering if
it was some kind of statement so I took
to the forums where I found this post by
the lead developer who was basically
like yeah I just really like girls
they're pretty dope and I mean yeah sure
I agree I think most of us agree
heartbeats surprised me it's been out
for a while on each day oh but late in
2018 it popped up on Steam where I hope
it started to cultivate some sort of a
fandom I really enjoyed my experience
with it I loved that a game is deceptive
with its storytelling seemingly innocent
at first but then revealing a much
darker an adult side as it moves on I
really like how it subverts the
expectations of not only an RPG maker
game but also the possibility of a
pokemon clone also the soundtrack is
like extremely good I'm sorry I'm not
ending this on a bad game I just really
wanted to talk about a heartbeat bye bye
in a post undertale world I know that
sounds ridiculous it's kind of hard to
get noticed even as an indie now because
you have so many games coming out left
and right with tons of personality
fighting for your attention on top of
the whole triple-a thing that's already
going on
so congratulations heartbeat for
catching my attention you did it good
job I liked it
that's all for today I'm gonna talk
about the one thing that I said I was
gonna be talking about next time but it
might be like a month or two so yell at
me I love you let me take a second to
talk to you about today's sponsor Nord
VPN remember earlier in the video when I
said let's install this now Windows
virtual PC over VPN yeah well that
wasn't a joke
anytime I want to check out a game or
website that isn't well known for being
secure I like to use Nord VPN to keep my
personal details safe you're gonna want
to as well considering games like
trainer Canyon here wanted to know all
of the things VPNs are great for when
you want to feel safe browsing the
internet or connect to public Wi-Fi
switch are notorious for being able to
probe details from your phone
but since the VPN has a really intuitive
phone app I'll check out all the weird
and bootleg e android games i want also
if you're trying to get around some of
those pesky region locks for streaming
services like netflix which are already
paying for i mean i didn't tell you this
but Nord VPN will let you connect the
data centers just about anywhere in the
world you want to watch some weird
Japanese Netflix exclusive go for it so
head on over to Nord VPN dot-com and use
the code Austin eruption to get 75% off
a three-year plan and an extra month for
free that's Nord VPN comm and the code
Austin eruption to protect your privacy
today special patreon shoutouts Alfredo
Ariano chase Scott Chris Shelton
Christopher Olivia
Donald Doughty David Mullen are I
rational Jay Bruce jackets Jacobi
Fitzpatrick Josh garbage Lord legendary
Knight Ron Ron evil Shintaro and
Superfly 1787 thank you very much for
your generous donations girls offer her
too sweet that's what the Creed our
heartbeat wants you to think I agree
subscribe the portly gamer and me and we
will fight I don't know why sounds nice